Let's talk about return values.
So we saw this return keyword.
This creates a return statement.
So when I say return some expression,
semi-colon, I'm saying, hey JavaScript,
make this the value that this expression
evaluates to once you've received
the given arguments and mapped them to
the parameters that I told you about.
Make that value the output
of this function,
the thing that the function gives back.
And so that means that we can
capture that value by, for example,
as we've seen a couple of times,
assigning it to a variable.
So in this example, our function
square it takes one parameter,
named x, and it returns
the value of the expression that
we get when we use the star
operator on x and x.
So we expect square of 3 to be 3 times 3,
which is 9.
Yeah, question.
>> Would it be different
than l console.log,
x times x would it be
the same result there?
>> Great question, let us find out.
So I think the question is if we
have this function square, and
let's use our original example square
here, which says return x times x.
And then we do const 9 = square(3), and
we asked for 9,
we have the number 9, yeah?
Okay, now, Let's find out what
happens if we make a new function.
I'm gonna call it, confusingly
because of math terms, log square,
which is going to instead of returning,
it's going to console.log x times x.
Is this what you meant?
Okay, so now if I call
logSquare in the console on 3,
I'm gonna see the value 9 print out.
But what happens if I do const logNine,
let's say, is logSquare(3).
What happened essentially in
this case is a good question.
So, let us see what happens when
we have a function like this,
a function that doesn't return anything,
of which our logSquare is another example.
So, here we have a similar one,
it's called, sayHello,
it takes in a name and it logs out,
Hi, plus name, plus exclamation point.
So if I say, sayHello(Marc),
I'm going to expect to hear, Hi, Marc.
Anybody see The Room?
No, it's movie reference, whatever.
Now, the question is,
what is gonna happen to that value?
So let's find out in our logSquare
example, very similar function.
All right, so we printed out
9 to the console as expected.
What is the value of log 9 gonna be,
do you think?
Any guesses?
Let's find out.
>> Undefined.
>> Log 9 is undefined.
>> Because we never
passed in the parameter.
>> Because we never, sorry?
>> Because we never pass in
the parameter for logSquare.
>> So it's not so
much about the parameter cuz actually
logSquare had actually the very
same parameters as square.
The difference is the missing
return statement.
So every function in
JavaScript returns something.
There is gonna be some value that
this function, when I call it,
logSquare(3), is going
to evaluate to a value.
And that value is gonna be
whatever the function returned.
And so, in this case,
I didn't have a return statement.
I did some other stuff, like console
log was doing other stuff, but
it didn't have a return statement.
And in JavaScript,
when we don't have a return statement,
we get undefined as the return
value of the function.
So it's essentially like JavaScript
always has a kind of default return
undefined in every function unless you
specify what function it should return.
Or, excuse me,
unless you specify what value it should
return using the return keyword.
So in this case, logSquare(3),
it printed 9 to the console,
but it returned undefined,
because we never used that return keyword.
So the value of logNine is whatever the
value that the logSquare(3) evaluates to,
which is the return value of the function,
which in this case is undefined.
Now what we could do is,
let's say have
a logAndReturnSquare function,
where we first log the square, And
then return the square, for example.
So if we now say,
result is logAndReturnSquare[3],
what do we expect is gonna happen?
>> 9.
>> Any guesses?
>> It's gonna be 9.
>> Go ahead.
>> Our result's gonna be 9.
>> So result is gonna be 9, and
is anything else gonna happen?
>> Print 9.
>> And it's also gonna print 9,
let's find out.
So here we have result of,
sorry, we have 9 got printed.
Now, we do see an undefined here, which
is confusing because that is gonna be
the value of this whole statement,
which doesn't have a value in JavaScript.
But if I ask for result, it did
indeed capture the return value of 9.
Okay, so if you want your function
to give you a value that you
can use later,
you wanna a return statement.
That doesn't mean that there
aren't useful functions.
And in fact, we're gonna do some that
don't have a return statement, because
sometimes we actually want the function to
do other stuff then give us back a value.
Maybe we wanna log things to the console,
maybe we wanna change something
on the HTML DOM, right?
So there are plenty of cases where
you're gonna have functions without
return statements, and anytime that
you don't have a return statement,
the implicit return value is undefined.
I have one more question for you.
What if I had a function
returnAndLogSquare,
which looks similar to our earlier one but
with the lines reversed?
So here we're gonna have a return x
times x and then console.log x times x.
Yeah, okay, what happens if I
try to create that function,
the browser's already giving me a warning
that there is unreachable code.
And if we were to try to capture
returnAndLogSquare(3) as
a value called attempt.
Notice what didn't happen when I called
that function, returnAndLogSquare,
we didn't see our 9 print out,
Like we did before.
Now, in this case, we're seeing a 9
because that is the value returned,
which was the value
that we got in attempt.
But we didn't see two 9s,
which is what we had before in logAnd,
where'd it go, logAndReturnSquare,
where we had a 9 and
then the return value is was not given.
So, this warning,
unreachable code after return statement,
is because essentially
JavaScript stops running
your code inside of the function body
once it hits that return statement.
So this line, console.log,
here, is never gonna run.
JavaScript doesn't really complain
when you declare the function.
Here my browser is trying to
help me out a little bit.
It's like, hey, warning, you're doing
something you probably don't wanna do.
But it's valid JavaScript,
it's not throwing an error.
Yeah, question.
>> We have people in the chat saying that
the return statement exits the function.
>> Exactly, that's another way of saying,
yeah exactly,
that's another way of saying that the
return statement tells JavaScript, hey,
we're done with this function,
get out of here.
Send out this value, this return value,
and then get out of here,
exit the function, great point.